src/README.md, before:

# @senzing/sdk-components-ng

## Overview

This project is for the Senzing&reg; SDK components that can be used in other projects. There are two flavors that the components come in. The [@senzing/sdk-components-ng](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@senzing/sdk-components-ng) package which is based around the Angular 10.x.x framework, and the [@senzing/sdk-components-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@senzing/sdk-components-web) package which is framework agnostic and based around the [Web Components](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/) standard. The usage for both packages is noted in the [documentation examples](http://hub.senzing.com/sdk-components-ng/).

For information on the Web Components version see the [sdk-components-web guide](https://github.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng/tree/master/sdk-components-web). 


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40senzing%2Fsdk-components-ng.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40senzing%2Fsdk-components-ng)
![GitHub release (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/senzing/sdk-components-ng?color=%2300c4ff&logo=latest%20tag)
![GitHub package.json version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/senzing/sdk-components-ng?color=orange&logo=latest&logoColor=blue)

## Dependencies

For building from Source:

* [Node/NPM](https://nodejs.org/).
* [Angular CLI](https://cli.angular.io/)
* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

Please see the installation instructions for each of these for how to install and setup each one properly.

### Installation

#### Shortcuts

If you're developing on Windows or macOS, you can make use of the [Senzing app](https://senzing.com/#download)
to help populate an entity repository to test with.  It also gives you an easy way to load and browse data
outside of the [Senzing REST API Sever](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server).  See the instructions
for using the [Senzing App Integration Scripts](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server/tree/master/app-scripts)
to start the Senzing REST API Server using your existing projects in the Senzing app.

#### REST API Server

These components require an implementation of the [Senzing REST API](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-rest-api)
to function.  You can use the [Senzing REST API Server](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) as a default
implementation in Java.  Follow [the instructions](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) to check out and
build the [Senzing REST API Sever](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) from source or download a pre-built
version when available.

### SDK Components

Open a terminal window to the location of your project and type:
`npm install @senzing/sdk-components-ng --save`

The components will be added to your node_modules.

Please take note that all the same [interfaces](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/), and [services](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/) from the [@senzing/rest-api-client-ng package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@senzing/rest-api-client-ng) will also be available for convenience.

#### Usage

Just add the import statement for the particular component, service, or model that you want to use.

```typescript
import {
  SzEntitySearchParams,
  SzAttributeSearchResult
} from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';
```

### Quick Start

**1)** Start up an instance of the [Senzing REST API Server](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server)
if not currently running.

See the [README.md](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) for instructions on how
to start the Senzing REST API Server on the command line or with Docker.

**2)** Add the SenzingSDKModule to your angular app's app.module.ts

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { SenzingSdkModule } from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    SenzingSdkModule.forRoot()
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

**3)** Check that components can be rendered correctly. Add the following to your app.component.html (or any template) and verify the result:

```html
<sz-powered-by format="small"></sz-powered-by>
```

The result should be a powered by logo like the following:

![powered by tag](docs/images/ss-powered-by-tag.png)

If not then double check that step 2 is correct, and that you remembered to include the
import statement as well.
  
**4)** Check that components can communicate with rest api gateway sucessfully. Add the following to your app.component.html(or any template):

```html
<sz-configuration-about></sz-configuration-about>
```

The result should be a list of service configuration parameters and values.

**5)** Load the engine with data to resolve. The easiest way to do this currently is to load a CSV using the
[Senzing app](https://senzing.com/#download).  This can also be done through the
[Senzing REST API](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-rest-api) using the [Senzing REST API Server](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server).

**6)** Verify that the components are working properly. The easiest way to do this is to is to just implement a search box, and a result list. Copy the following to your app.component.html file

```html
<sz-search (resultsChange)="onSearchResults($event)"></sz-search>
<sz-search-results
[results]="currentSearchResults"
(resultClick)="onSearchResultClick($event)"></sz-search-results>
```

now in your controller class (app.component.ts) add the *onSearchResults* and *onSearchResultClick* methods we just referenced above:

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import {
  SzEntitySearchParams,
  SzAttributeSearchResult
} from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = 'senzing-sdk-consumer';
  public currentSearchResults: SzAttributeSearchResult[];
  public currentlySelectedEntityId: number;
  public currentSearchParameters: SzEntitySearchParams;

  onSearchResults(evt: SzAttributeSearchResult[]) {
    console.log('@senzing/sz-search-results: ', evt);
    // store on current scope
    this.currentSearchResults = evt;
    // results module is bound to this property
  }

  public onSearchResultClick(entityData: SzAttributeSearchResult) {
    console.log('@senzing/sz-search-results-click: ', entityData);

    if (entityData && entityData.entityId > 0) {
      this.currentlySelectedEntityId = entityData.entityId;
    }
  }
}
```

Now, start up your standard Angular dev server (or maybe just restart for fun) via `ng serve`
and you should be greeted by a page like with a search box. And search results list right below it.

![screen shot of working example](docs/images/ss-search-with-results.small.png)

And that's it! At least for the quickstart. There are a ton more options for running the rest server, interacting with the components and services.

## Configuration & Parameters

The SenzingSDKModule accepts a factory method that returns an instance of the
[SzRestConfiguration](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/classes/Configuration.html) class. By adding a factory like the following to the forRoot method, you can change services configuration to point to non-default values.

The following tells any components to turn on CORS functionality and make all api requests to localhost port 8080 (i.e.: http://localhost:8080/).

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { SenzingSdkModule, SzRestConfiguration } from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

// create exportable factory  
// for AOT compilation
export function SzRestConfigurationFactory() {
  return new SzRestConfiguration({
    basePath: 'http://localhost:8080',
    withCredentials: true
  });
}

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    SenzingSdkModule.forRoot( SzRestConfigurationFactory )
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

### Parameters

See [online documentation](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/classes/Configuration.html) for a complete list of configuration parameters that can control the connection behavior of the sdk components.

## Documentation

Installation contains a statically generated API and component references. They can be found in
node_modules/@senzing/sdk-components-ng/docs or [Online here](https://senzing.github.io/sdk-components-ng/).

## Examples

When you check out the source for this repository there is a directory of Angular project examples. Please see the [Examples Readme](https://github.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng/tree/master/examples) for more information on how these work.

## Troubleshooting

Occasionally something does go wrong (I know, I know right?). Here are some common things we run in to:

<table style="border: 2px solid #eee; border-collapse: separate; border-spacing: 2px;">
  <thead style="background-color: #c0c0c0; color: #454545; font-weight: bold;">
    <tr>
      <td style="padding: 2px 5px;">Problem</td>
      <td style="padding: 2px 5px;">Solution</td>
      <td style="padding: 2px 5px;">Explanation</td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr style="padding: 0 0 12px 0; border-bottom: 1px solid green;">
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">messages like <code>GET http://attribute-types/ net::ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED</code> are
      showing up in the developer console</td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">
        Set the api configuration to the address and port your rest server is running at by
        passing in an instance of <a href="https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/classes/Configuration.html">SzRestConfiguration</a> to the <a href="https://senzing.github.io/sdk-components-ng/modules/SenzingSdkModule.html">SenzingSdkModule.forRoot method</a>.
        <br/><br/>
        Double check and make sure you can connect to your rest server via
        <code>curl -i http://localhost:8080/heartbeat</code>
      </td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">
        The api is trying to hit the rest server without an appropriate basepath or the hostname.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;"><code>npm run start</code> throws weird "No App Module" error</td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">recompile the npm package. <br/>
      <code>npm run build</code></td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">For whatever reason sometimes the builder <i>misses</i> compiling packages. open up dist/@senzing/sdk-components/public_api.d.ts and check to make sure all the packages being referenced actually got compiled.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

#207 needed to change install procedure to split out material. updated docs

src/README.md, after:

# @senzing/sdk-components-ng

## Overview

This project is for the Senzing&reg; SDK components that can be used in other projects. There are two flavors that the components come in. The [@senzing/sdk-components-ng](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@senzing/sdk-components-ng) package which is based around the Angular 10.x.x framework, and the [@senzing/sdk-components-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@senzing/sdk-components-web) package which is framework agnostic and based around the [Web Components](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/) standard. The usage for both packages is noted in the [documentation examples](http://hub.senzing.com/sdk-components-ng/).

For information on the Web Components version see the [sdk-components-web guide](https://github.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng/tree/master/sdk-components-web). 


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40senzing%2Fsdk-components-ng.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40senzing%2Fsdk-components-ng)
![GitHub release (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/senzing/sdk-components-ng?color=%2300c4ff&logo=latest%20tag)
![GitHub package.json version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/senzing/sdk-components-ng?color=orange&logo=latest&logoColor=blue)

## Dependencies

For building from Source:

* [Node/NPM](https://nodejs.org/).
* [Angular CLI](https://cli.angular.io/)
* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

Please see the installation instructions for each of these for how to install and setup each one properly.

### Installation

#### Shortcuts

If you're developing on Windows or macOS, you can make use of the [Senzing app](https://senzing.com/#download)
to help populate an entity repository to test with.  It also gives you an easy way to load and browse data
outside of the [Senzing REST API Sever](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server).  See the instructions
for using the [Senzing App Integration Scripts](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server/tree/master/app-scripts)
to start the Senzing REST API Server using your existing projects in the Senzing app.

#### REST API Server

These components require an implementation of the [Senzing REST API](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-rest-api)
to function.  You can use the [Senzing REST API Server](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) as a default
implementation in Java.  Follow [the instructions](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) to check out and
build the [Senzing REST API Sever](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) from source or download a pre-built
version when available.

### SDK Components

Open a terminal window to the location of your project and type:
`ng add @angular/material`
`ng add @senzing/sdk-components-ng`

The components package, along with any missing dependencies will be added to your project. 

Alternatively you can install the components and dependencies without the angular-cli via npm individually:
`npm i @angular/material @angular/cdk @senzing/sdk-graph-components @senzing/sdk-components-ng --save`

Please take note that all the same [interfaces](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/), and [services](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/) from the [@senzing/rest-api-client-ng package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@senzing/rest-api-client-ng) will also be available for convenience.

#### Usage

Just add the import statement for the particular component, service, or model that you want to use.

```typescript
import {
  SzEntitySearchParams,
  SzAttributeSearchResult
} from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';
```

### Quick Start

**1)** Start up an instance of the [Senzing REST API Server](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server)
if not currently running.

See the [README.md](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server) for instructions on how
to start the Senzing REST API Server on the command line or with Docker.

**2)** Add the SenzingSDKModule to your angular app's app.module.ts

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { SenzingSdkModule } from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    SenzingSdkModule.forRoot()
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

**3)** Check that components can be rendered correctly. Add the following to your app.component.html (or any template) and verify the result:

```html
<sz-powered-by format="small"></sz-powered-by>
```

The result should be a powered by logo like the following:

![powered by tag](docs/images/ss-powered-by-tag.png)

If not then double check that step 2 is correct, and that you remembered to include the
import statement as well.
  
**4)** Check that components can communicate with rest api gateway sucessfully. Add the following to your app.component.html(or any template):

```html
<sz-configuration-about></sz-configuration-about>
```

The result should be a list of service configuration parameters and values.

**5)** Load the engine with data to resolve. The easiest way to do this currently is to load a CSV using the
[Senzing app](https://senzing.com/#download).  This can also be done through the
[Senzing REST API](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-rest-api) using the [Senzing REST API Server](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-api-server).

**6)** Verify that the components are working properly. The easiest way to do this is to is to just implement a search box, and a result list. Copy the following to your app.component.html file

```html
<sz-search (resultsChange)="onSearchResults($event)"></sz-search>
<sz-search-results
[results]="currentSearchResults"
(resultClick)="onSearchResultClick($event)"></sz-search-results>
```

now in your controller class (app.component.ts) add the *onSearchResults* and *onSearchResultClick* methods we just referenced above:

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import {
  SzEntitySearchParams,
  SzAttributeSearchResult
} from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = 'senzing-sdk-consumer';
  public currentSearchResults: SzAttributeSearchResult[];
  public currentlySelectedEntityId: number;
  public currentSearchParameters: SzEntitySearchParams;

  onSearchResults(evt: SzAttributeSearchResult[]) {
    console.log('@senzing/sz-search-results: ', evt);
    // store on current scope
    this.currentSearchResults = evt;
    // results module is bound to this property
  }

  public onSearchResultClick(entityData: SzAttributeSearchResult) {
    console.log('@senzing/sz-search-results-click: ', entityData);

    if (entityData && entityData.entityId > 0) {
      this.currentlySelectedEntityId = entityData.entityId;
    }
  }
}
```

Now, start up your standard Angular dev server (or maybe just restart for fun) via `ng serve`
and you should be greeted by a page like with a search box. And search results list right below it.

![screen shot of working example](docs/images/ss-search-with-results.small.png)

And that's it! At least for the quickstart. There are a ton more options for running the rest server, interacting with the components and services.

## Configuration & Parameters

The SenzingSDKModule accepts a factory method that returns an instance of the
[SzRestConfiguration](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/classes/Configuration.html) class. By adding a factory like the following to the forRoot method, you can change services configuration to point to non-default values.

The following tells any components to turn on CORS functionality and make all api requests to localhost port 8080 (i.e.: http://localhost:8080/).

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { SenzingSdkModule, SzRestConfiguration } from '@senzing/sdk-components-ng';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

// create exportable factory  
// for AOT compilation
export function SzRestConfigurationFactory() {
  return new SzRestConfiguration({
    basePath: 'http://localhost:8080',
    withCredentials: true
  });
}

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    SenzingSdkModule.forRoot( SzRestConfigurationFactory )
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

### Parameters

See [online documentation](https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/classes/Configuration.html) for a complete list of configuration parameters that can control the connection behavior of the sdk components.

## Documentation

Installation contains a statically generated API and component references. They can be found in
node_modules/@senzing/sdk-components-ng/docs or [Online here](https://senzing.github.io/sdk-components-ng/).

## Examples

When you check out the source for this repository there is a directory of Angular project examples. Please see the [Examples Readme](https://github.com/Senzing/sdk-components-ng/tree/master/examples) for more information on how these work.

## Troubleshooting

Occasionally something does go wrong (I know, I know right?). Here are some common things we run in to:

<table style="border: 2px solid #eee; border-collapse: separate; border-spacing: 2px;">
  <thead style="background-color: #c0c0c0; color: #454545; font-weight: bold;">
    <tr>
      <td style="padding: 2px 5px;">Problem</td>
      <td style="padding: 2px 5px;">Solution</td>
      <td style="padding: 2px 5px;">Explanation</td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr style="padding: 0 0 12px 0; border-bottom: 1px solid green;">
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">messages like <code>GET http://attribute-types/ net::ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED</code> are
      showing up in the developer console</td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">
        Set the api configuration to the address and port your rest server is running at by
        passing in an instance of <a href="https://senzing.github.io/rest-api-client-ng/classes/Configuration.html">SzRestConfiguration</a> to the <a href="https://senzing.github.io/sdk-components-ng/modules/SenzingSdkModule.html">SenzingSdkModule.forRoot method</a>.
        <br/><br/>
        Double check and make sure you can connect to your rest server via
        <code>curl -i http://localhost:8080/heartbeat</code>
      </td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">
        The api is trying to hit the rest server without an appropriate basepath or the hostname.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;"><code>npm run start</code> throws weird "No App Module" error</td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">recompile the npm package. <br/>
      <code>npm run build</code></td>
      <td style="padding: 10px 5px;">For whatever reason sometimes the builder <i>misses</i> compiling packages. open up dist/@senzing/sdk-components/public_api.d.ts and check to make sure all the packages being referenced actually got compiled.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
